this is the sort of video where I have
asked myself what kind of mood you'll
want to strike them accordingly do I
want to seem very personal and
reflective about how what this means to
me and reach out to the audience what
does this mean to you do I want to see
more kind of professional and pull on
that deep background I have in political
science and philosophy the controversy
of the moment is that Elizabeth Horan
crossed the line in some electioneering
shenanigans in her ongoing contest
against Bernie Sanders and then suddenly
the whole left-wing woke up and looked
back the long history of Elizabeth
Warren's dishonesty and kind of
manipulative misleading shenanigans I
said he will annoy all this stuff we
were pretending doesn't matter suddenly
seems like it really does matter a most
notably little-known guy from Flint
Michigan made a podcast reflecting on
the extent to which the whole left-wing
had been choosing to ignore Elizabeth
Warren's claims about her own ethnicity
but when you let yourself stop and think
about it it really really matters it
matters that Elizabeth Warren put her
name forward for a cookbook of Native
American cuisine indigenous peoples
cooking that she submitted recipes like
yet to shore up this claim that she is
quote unquote
a woman of color because she signed up
for and received the status and benefits
of being a woman of color being a part
of an oppressed and disadvantaged
minority not only as a student but also
as a professor the universally perming
her employer the university formally
celebrated that she was their first
woman of color as a professor I think in
the Faculty of law and all of this was
based on the claim that in some sense
she has a meaningful connection to
indigenous people of North America now
look in some ways the question of what
ethnicity really means is the same
whether you're talking about
African Americans or Native Americans or
the Jewish experience or the Chinese
experience and in some ways each of
these examples each of these questions
of what it means to be a member of an
ethnic group in some ways it's really
unique all right
my ex-wife is partly of African ancestry
partly she has never signed up for and
never received recognition as a woman of
color I think if she were in New York
City
nobody would treat her as a woman of
color maybe once in a while someone
would ask if she was part Hispanic or
something if she had some like maybe
someone and you know what actually if
we're being all the way honest black
Africans when they met her this happened
a couple times during my marriage with
my first wife there would be black guys
from Africa who'd be like they could
tell but you could tell she puts in some
tiny tiny fraction of African ancestry
that did happen a few times when we were
together alright so I mean you know
there's my ex-wife and then my ex-wife's
mother is twice as African and then my
ex-wife's grandfather is twice as much
African again but nevertheless even at
that stage or the family tree people
couldn't tell that that guy was African
in many contacts he was treated as white
and then this funny thing happened
called the Holocaust and al maybe you
never heard about this there was this
political party called the Nazis and
they started rounding people up and
putting them into concentration camps
and this dude my ex-wife's grandfather
he was put into a concentration camp on
the suspicion or the assumption that he
was Jewish and so what happened his
African ancestry saved his life
series of witnesses came forward
including some people he knew who had
some kind of connections in the Nazi
Party out of they were members or
officers or what a series of witnesses
came forward and said no no no he's not
Jewish
he's North African black he's some kind
of you know mixed mixed ethnicity person
from North Africa and he's he's not
Jewish to let him out of their
concentration camp and it's it saved his
life Oh reports this you know Elizabeth
Warren claims to have more than zero
indigenous ancestry she got the DNA test
and it is as close to zero as any
measurable quantity of DNA can be I
really do wonder with the quality of
today's DNA test could it just be an
error because it's so close to zero
there are all kinds of people get DNA
tests and they say they're partly of
Spanish ancestry and they know they're
not they say that partly of Asian
ancestry and they have the records of
the family they know they're not could
it just be an error in a little Smith
once that I don't know but in terms of
my ex-wife's family tree already
for most African known ancestor that
grandfather he looked white European
enough that most of the time people
treated him as white and in one
remarkable circumstance he was
persecuted as being Jewish
what is ethnicity in the 21st century
what is the experience or even the
oppression or the cultural knowledge
that we're supposed to have participated
in to be positively identified as that
ethnicity even if it were true that
Elizabeth Warren has one ancestor
great-great-great-great great
grandparent even she has one ancestor
who was Native American how old can
Elizabeth Warren write down on a piece
of paper that she is a woman of color
and get these benefits in the university
how could she write out a recipe
pretending that she personally has some
kind of involvement with Native American
culture and tradition and cooking that
she know
the cuisine I mean my my ex-wife I can't
remember any time in her life we're
really positively or negatively her
status as being a partly African
ancestry had a big impact in her life
for me the memory that stands out the
most was when employees at the hospital
treated us like crap when she was giving
birth to my daughter and the irony was
the the employees who were in a sense
most racist against us they were
themselves North African immigrants to
France right they were they were North
African people and they looked down on
us like the two of us were both North
African immigrants like themselves so
that was but it was a really messed up
situation
but that was more like self-hatred on
the part of these people rather than
racism and it's conventional sense and
you know I could I could understand it
from their perspective what they did was
wrong and evil and it made you know what
could have been the happiest days of my
life the days of my daughters were it
made it a traumatic experience really
I'm not overstating it was horrible
being in a being in Oz where people were
racist against me they had all these
stereotypes about North African
immigrants the subset kept saying this
insulting stuff to us and they were
themselves North African immigrants or
the direct descendants of North African
immigrants in that part of France the
south of France is really messed up
about about ethnicity totally different
category
I mean me they perceive me as North
African so yeah if I look like I'm North
African maybe people use their
imagination and they look at Elizabeth
Warren and think that she's she's partly
Native American but be that as it may um
how could Elizabeth Warren make the
claim to knowing a recipe to submitting
a recipe to a cookbook as being part of
Native American tradition Native
American culture my ex-wife doesn't know
any African recipes it's not like her
great-great grandfather passed down on
African cuisine to him my ex-wife's
mother doesn't know any African ancestor
it doesn't know African
cuisine or African traditions or African
religion or African language all right
it's already too many generations ago
for even my ex-wife's mother to submit a
rescue event so how would I feel how
would I feel looking at the next
generation if my daughter if my daughter
then like made a big deal out of this
tiny fragment of DNA that she has
linking her back to Africa and it's
legit it's real um I remember one case
very clearly where a black guy he saw
pictures of me with my daughter and he
sent me email saying oh hey I can tell
your daughter is is partly black as part
of the back so some people some people
can discern this in my daughter that she
has some tiny fragment well how would I
feel if my daughter grew up and was like
playing that card in the university like
leaning into and claiming to be a woman
of color claiming to be even
african-american or claiming to be part
of the African American experience when
she walks the streets of New York City
police officers do not treat her as
black any of these people my ex-wife or
you know my daughter there is no sense
in which they can even participate on
that level with the african-american
experience and there's no sense in which
they ever have in their lives no look I
mean cuisine is a funny thing if you
want to I could become a master of
Chinese cuisine I have no Chinese
ancestry and then I guess I could submit
to a nice coat though but this is this
is getting this is getting a little bit
weird and disturbing ethnicity in the
21st century is is a category where
perception is everything and then it's
easy to think in terms of a full
symmetry where we have perception on the
one hand and then we have reality on the
other hand but we're often dealing with
situation where there's perception and
then there's nothing real we can counter
pose to that perception okay probably
all of you who are regular subscribers
to my channel all of you know me for a
few years you all perceive me as Jewish
okay guess what I'm just as Irish as I
am Jewish
but I'm Percy
to be Jewish okay I have a sister
not a half-sister I have a full-blooded
sister and she looks Irish she looks
scots-irish let's be let's be real here
she looks we could even say she looks
more Scottish than Irish but doesn't
matter okay um there's a whole history
of colonialism there we're not gonna get
into with the colonization of
Londonderry in Northern Ireland okay
let's just say Scottish Irish let's
hyphenate the two together okay that's
what my sister looks like because you
roll the dice with DNA and that's how
she turned out guess what my family name
would be if we didn't have a fake name
in my family tree if I had my father's
father's father's names that were
continuous coming down the farther side
of him my name would be McGinty and I
would have grown up being perceived as
Irish or Scots Irish or Scottish Irish
right and people would have said about
me oh yeah McGinty yeah big guy people
and people would just use their
imagination and perceived me as Irish
despite like my ethnic features that I
got and probably you know like if I was
in school with my sister if the two of
us were standing there I got a big
problem oh yeah those are the McGinty
kids this is old man McGinty's kids
those are those Irish kids and my sister
actually looks Scottish Irish and then
you just use your imagination
and perceive me as ours you know what
participating in that cultural identity
in that ethnicity in the Canadian
culture I can imagine how that would've
inspired me to move in a certain
direction or even to exaggerate certain
kinds of stereotypical behaviors I can
imagine that back when I was 16 years
old
and I still kind of drank alcohol and
went to clubs and carouse and stuff that
like the the sense of being Irish of
participating in an Irish identity that
that might've encouraged me to get into
more stereotypically Irish behaviors as
an Irish guy I can imagine how in terms
of like the politics of the day because
when I grew up terrorism in Ireland was
still a real ongoing thing there was
open when I was a kid Ireland and the
clash and Ireland
in the newspaper thing I could imagine
how maybe that would have been a bigger
interest for me you know um
Hillary Clinton's kid Chelsea Clinton I
forget the kid Hillary Clinton had with
with Bill Clinton she did her PhD thesis
on the politics of Ireland the peace
process and the terrorism and so on for
me not an interest still to this day not
really interested okay you know I can
imagine how if my father is lying still
had that name McGinty that Irishness
could have been a huge part of my
upbringing and could still be part of my
life today in a sense whether I cared
about or even if I despised it but like
Here I am living with this name
McGinty and probably nobody
would have ever even noticed that I look
Jewish because we see what we want to
see and the same way people convince
themselves that Elizabeth Warren looks
Native American people would have
convinced themselves that I look
Irish and the irony is genetically I am
Scottish Irish I'm just as much Scottish
Irish as I am Jewish but instead growing
up the way I did looking the way I did
Judaism and Jewishness and the politics
of Israel have always been this huge
part of my life have always cast
this huge cloud over my life and look
talking about my ex-wife and my daughter
in their case African s and blackness
were not a part of their life but maybe
if they had looked slightly different
maybe if when you rolled the dice and
the DNA came out maybe if they had
looked a bit more like their grandfather
maybe all of that would have been
totally different and the African and
black or african-american mixed race
cultural experience would have been a
huge part of their lives also Elizabeth
Warren lied intentionally lied and
cultivated a mythos around herself of
being Native American of participating
in Native American culture of even
representing Native American culture
even if it was only to the extent of
recipes to that cookbook as if she has a
connection to that kind of cuisine and
that culture Elizabeth Warren promoted
herself as a woman of color as a student
and then as a professor and then insulin
accepting accolades as being the first
woman of color professor and I think
we're living through a period of time
where we all feel the extent to which
our participation in a given ethnic
category is to some extent elective and
voluntary right and yet it's still real
and it still matters I knew people who
were Native American in the Saskatchewan
who looked who look the same as my
current girlfriend Melissa who looked a
hundred percent white European okay in
what sense
were they Native American despite
appearances well for one thing if you
actually go back and look at the
portraits that are in like the British
National Portrait Gallery or the French
collections if you look at the painted
portraits of what Native American Chiefs
look like when they first had contact
with Europeans and they had intermarried
Europeans at all they never looked all
that different the difference in the
ethnic appearance of First Nations
immigrants it's not that striking it's
very subtle and the vast majority of
people who have survived the genocide
and slavery today they are of mixed
ancestry we're not going to digress into
the long history of why that is they
have some European ancestry mixed in
with their Native American ancestry and
in some cases they have 3/4 Europeans
history but I knew people in
Saskatchewan who were students at First
Nations University who had a meaningful
connection to that culture because they
actually did cook the cuisine they
actually were involved in
being Parliament in complaining to the
government Abba Polti revolt in the
activism and the protests okay they
actually were going to religious
ceremonies in a tent you know where they
inhale tobacco smoke and they chant and
they dance they were actually part of
the culture and the politics a few of
them were struggling to hold on to the
language too few
it was incredibly rare to meet First
Nations people who are making the effort
to keep the language alive which is a
tragedy okay but these were people who
even if they looked a hundred percent
white and we have a really significant
footnote there that even 300 years ago a
lot of them did not look that different
from Europeans with a very subtle
difference in their their appearance um
a lot of them have a really meaningful
involvement with that history and that
culture and that ongoing political
struggle and yes it's a choice that's a
choice Elizabeth Warren could have made
she could have been the world's most
famous wealthy powerful and successful
advocate for Native Americans and First
Nations rights but to my knowledge she
has done less politically for Native
Americans than Bernie Sanders she's done
less politically than Nixon Richard
Nixon is a really interesting history
with that that that wasn't what she did
with her life
wouldn't everything be different today
if she hadn't rolled let's just say
maybe she could enroll the same
University I did at First Nations
University taking specialized courses in
the history politics and language of of
Native Americans of indigenous people
learning those languages is incredibly
hard work okay
so we're moving into a period of time
when I think the standards for
authenticity are once again
shifting and we have to move away from a
purely negative assumption that you're
only part of an ethnic group if you
suffered oppression because of your
appearance or be
of your status as part of that ethic
group and we have to move into a
fundamentally positive view that you're
part of that ethnic group because you
chose to contribute positively to that
political discourse you chose to
contribute positively to that culture
even if it was something as simple as
preparing recipes as caring about the
cuisine in that cultural tradition